---
layout: post
title: Professional Development Week 3 - Getting Started With Unity
---
### Weekly Accomplishments
This week's primary accomplishments were becoming familiar with the basics of Unity and the creation of a boat path for my simulation.  I worked through some of the Unity Editor Essentials learning pathway in order to gain familiarity with the basic functions of the Unity editor.  With a shift in focus toward a tangible start to my project, I did not complete all of the learning objectives that I outlined last week.  Here are some of the tasks for my project that are now complete:

1. Boat design:  With the limited scope of this project, I do not have the time to experiment with the design and creation of 3D models.  I have chosen, instead, to utilize a boat design from [FAB](https://www.fab.com).  FAB is a new marketplace for digital content, by Epic Games.
2. Boat path: Using the Unity Spline package, I was able to design a boat path and orient the boat to travel along the spline.
3. Simulated Water: I downloaded a water shader for my project and gained familiarity with Unity's asset store in order to implement this feature.

Here is a brief demo of what I've done so far:
   <div class="embed-container">
        <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/BsSFRReR6Kk" width="700" height="480" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true"></iframe>
   </div>

Given the time allotment, I chose to create the boatpath with an existing Unity package.  In the future, I envision the creation of a custom Catmull-Rom Spline for the boat path as a nod to Ed Catmull - creator of Pixar.  That seems like a nice touch, given the nature of this project. If time allows, I'll work to implement this toward the end of the semester.  

### This Week's Goals

1. Explore the [Unity Programming Essentials](https://learn.unity.com/pathway/unity-essentials/unit/programming-essentials?version=6.0) pathway.
2. Explore the [Unity 3D Essentials](https://learn.unity.com/pathway/unity-essentials/unit/3d-essentials?version=6.0) pathway.
3. Begin sketching scene ideas for the simulator.
4. Create a mesh that limits the water in the scene to the boat path.

### Current Challenges
Learning how to use Unity continues to be a challenge and likely will be for the duration of this project.  I believe that implementing a custom mesh next week in Unity will be my first programming challenge for this project.  Understanding how to apply scripts to Unity assets was a takeaway from the past week, and I look forward to now applying that knowledge.

### Reflections
I may have underestimated the time needed to understand the basic functions of Unity and began this week wanting to dive right into the tasks that would require the utilization of C#.  Taking the time to understand the Unity platform was well worth the effort.  I will be sure to take the time to explore how to use additional features that may be needed in the future.  As an example - Positioning the camera on an object and widening the field of view sounds simple and it is now, in hind sight.  That  task alone, though, took me about an hour to get right!  Patience truly is a virtue. 
